breaking news tonight the US and Canada
closing their borders as the corona
virus pandemic deepens new
shelter-in-place orders as millions more
Americans are told as staying home the
Navy to deploy to hospital ships one to
New York City the u.s. toll rising over
a hundred 30 deaths cases globally now
topping 200,000 President Trump calling
himself a wartime president the dire
predictions from the White House
expected dramatic increase in cases in
the next four to five days and just in
the Senate passing an economic relief
bill and those checks for American
families what we've now learned about
when they could go out and for how much
they might be but down nose-diving again
all the games during the trump
presidency wiped out is your money safe
the crisis at hospital is the first
hospital in the u.s. dedicated to
treating coronavirus and rising concerns
for health care workers on the front
lines the dramatic new warning for young
people still crowding beaches and bars
they may be more at risk than we knew by
get Colonna I get Corona at the end of
the day I'm not gonna want to stop me
from partying but growing pleas from
health officials the online crush has
more Americans to work and learn at home
than ever can the internet handle it and
what you can do to boost your speed and
the new alert for parents tonight about
the corona virus and young children
this is NBC Nightly News with Lester
Holt good evening everyone we're glad
you're here with the touchstones of
normal life vanishing before our eyes
the Senate late today approved the first
interventions for Americans caught
financially flat-footed by this pandemic
it comes as officials warn the number of
infected Americans will soar largely as
the pace of testing increases hospital
ships are now being mobilized to ease
the strain on the medical system the
military stepping in with critical
supplies but the reality tonight is this
crisis is getting worse and what we do
will determine how bad it gets let's
turn to our team now for the latest
first Miguel Almaguer tonight the
American shut down perhaps spreading
faster than the coronavirus today more
city centers small businesses and rural
schools shuttered as the illness spikes
again now reaching every state infecting
thousands and killing more than a
hundred nationwide in communities big
and small the National Guard deploying
to additional regions as more counties
order a shelter in place restricting
public gatherings telling families not
to leave home unless necessary we're
just trying to like condense my outside
time so as little bit as possible the
governor of New York says no such order
is imminent for New York City where the
USNS comfort a floating hospital with
1,000 rooms will dock next month and
where businesses are being forced to
operate differently no more than 50% of
the workforce can report for work
outside of the home as iconic Detroit
automakers like Ford GM and Chrysler a
symbol of American manufacturing pull
the plug on production the u.s. Canadian
border is also closing two non-essential
traffic even College commencements are
being cancelled the president urging
everyone to stay home we must sacrifice
together because we are all in this
together facing a shortage of testing
kits in an influx in demand officials
say those without coronavirus symptoms
should not be tested in Portland Oregon
clinics are closing temporarily to
prepare for an influx of patients
doctors are worried over the next four
to five days a large spike in cases will
be confirmed it wasn't like any sickness
that I've had before 31 year old Laura
Koch fears she has the virus but says
she can't get tested in Chicago couldn't
sleep
and I was sweating through t-shirts left
and right that even now it's difficult
for me to walk upstairs without losing
my breath amid an ongoing run on
supplies at grocery stores public
schools across the country are handing
out free meals to hungry students after
closing their doors the governor in
Kansas announced classes are over for
the rest of the academic year
California's governor said the Golden
State with its six million-plus students
could follow suit Justin Wilhite says
the virus is nothing like the flu
nothing gets rid of the pain nothing
gets rid of the symptoms everything the
authorities are trying to get you to do
I'm living proof of why you need to do
them tonight our country entering a new
era as we all witness the changing face
of America in several cities and states
across the country the number of
confirmed coronavirus cases actually
doubled since last count
that's a scary trend will likely
continue to see and tonight doctors say
they are also concerned about the
homeless population where the vilest
virus could quickly spread and go
undetected for some time Lester Miguel
thank so you mentioned that some
expected spike in the coming days the
nation's health care system is feeling
the stress already health care workers
desperate for protective gear and those
with symptoms anxious to get tested
here's Tom Costello from the nation's
hospitals to the White House today an
urge at rush to get ahead of a promised
tsunami of sick patients New York
Governor Andrew Cuomo says the need is
now this is the number one device that
we need the military now rushing medical
gear including five million n95 masks
for civilian use and 2,000 ventilators
the HHS national stockpile now rolling
out in Boston a dedicated hospital will
now only treat kovat 19 patients
nationwide doctors nurses and first
responders are short on masks face
shields and gowns it feels like nothing
I have experienced in my 25 years in
medicine University of New Mexico
emergency chair Steve McLaughlin and his
family are under home quarantine after
he was exposed to a kovat patient we
know that if we make a mistake with our
personal protection that we could also
get sick and that adds a really
different level I think of anxiety to
this particular event some hospitals
even making their own protective shields
from trips to Home Depot others reusing
protective masks virus can accumulate on
those masks taking them off putting them
back on is of concern and knowing
exactly how to disinfect those masks is
is also concerning tonight the
government reports seven percent of
those tested were positive though as
testing ramps up the numbers will also
move higher we will see the number of
people diagnosed dramatically increase
over the next four to five days but
across the country
long lines for a test or no test at all
South Dakota is temporarily delayed at
an Atlanta area test site our team kept
six feet distance when Cynthia unis
approached to say she had been turned
away it's been very frightening I don't
even go to the hospital no more I just
lay in the bed and put up with the
shortness of breath the Red Cross also
issuing an urgent appeal for blood it's
short 100,000 units we're creating a
very very safe environment for people to
donate
we're sanitizing the beds after each
donation we have gloves we're taking
people's temperatures as they presented
the drive also tonight the government is
allowing doctors to cross state lines to
practice in areas where they're needed
most and it's pushing pharmaceutical
companies to develop therapeutics in the
absence of a vaccine lustre hats off to
those medical workers Tom thank you
health authorities try to stop the
spread of the virus say they've got a
growing concern that many young people
are still not taking the threat
seriously we said Kerry Sanders to the
beach to find out why
alarming Spring Break images from Texas
to Clearwater Beach Florida today as
packed as ever college students say they
see the warnings including to stay out
of crowds but coronavirus now exposing a
generational divide with authorities
pleading for more young people to social
distance we can't do this without the
young people cooperating and just today
a new warning there are concerning
reports coming out of France and Italy
about some young people getting
seriously ill sobering news that's
sparking even more outrage over images
like these from a lung transplant
survivor so centeredness of many who oh
this is not gonna affect me I'm the
younger generation we're the healthy
ones some spring breakers told us they
know they're in the spotlight is the bad
rap earned I mean are we seeing your
generation ignore what they should be
doing I mean I'd say no cuz I know our
universities completely shut down
meanwhile just a short distance from the
beach those most at risk you like the
idea that we're doing the interview like
this with this protection yeah 93
year-old Shirley Acker told me when she
was young her generation would have
heeded the warnings we did when we were
younger what's the difference today they
think they know it all that's what I
think they think that they're better
than children were years ago and we just
listened that's why I got to be 93 in
the wake of extreme criticism late today
the Clearwater City Commission voted the
beach will close down but not until
Monday Lester I'd carry the battle to
get everyone on the same page on this
tonight the Senate passing an aid
package to help those impacted by the
virus granting paid sick leave to hourly
workers and expanding unemployment
insurance but Wall Street tumbled once
again today Peter Alexander has details
tonight President Trump casting this
crisis as an unprecedented battle I view
it as a
in a sense of wartime president I mean
that's what we're fighting I mean it's
it's a it's a very tough situation it's
the invisible enemy that's always the
toughest enemy the invisible enemy but
we're going to defeat the invisible
enemy and more details about one of the
ways he wants to fight it those checks
to most Americans the administration
calling for two rounds of payments the
first to start going out April 6th the
second six weeks later Congress is still
negotiating but it remains unclear how
big the checks would be and who gets
them
president Trump also pushing back on his
Treasury Secretary's private warning to
lawmakers that if the federal government
does not act unemployment could
skyrocket to 20%
I don't agree that's a absolute total
worst-case scenario but no we don't look
at that at all meanwhile tonight he's
brushing off frustrations about how some
of the rich and famous are getting tests
before others Howard professional
athletes getting tests while others are
waiting in line to ask them that
question I mean they I've read no I
wouldn't say so but perhaps that's been
the story of life tonight the president
is also defending calling the
coronavirus the Chinese virus despite
fierce criticism that the term is racist
and stigmatizes Chinese Americans his
own CDC director saying it's
inappropriate President Trump tonight
insisting it is not racist but accurate
he says because the virus started in
China Lester all right Peter Alexander
at the White House and today's sell-off
on Wall Street cause those so-called
circuit breakers to trigger essentially
halting trading it's a seventh time
that's happened in two weeks some now
wondering what is going to happen to our
financial system and whether they should
even consider pulling their money out of
banks senior business correspondent
Stephanie ruhle is here Stephanie what
should we know last are the markets
might be ugly but that doesn't mean your
money in the bank isn't safe the actual
US financial system is stronger now than
during the last financial crisis in 2008
whether your savings are at a
traditional or an online bank just
remember if it's insured by the FDIC
your money is as safe as can be in
cities where the virus is more
widespread and movements
restricted it is totally understandable
that some people are taking a bit more
money out of ATMs and that is okay if it
makes them feel better to have more cash
on hand but that is not really necessary
Lester alright so important reassurance
there Stephanie thank you we'll be back
in 60 seconds with what America can
learn from what's happening in Europe
right now also with so many of us moving
work and school online can the internet
handle the surge stay with us
a grim milestone of the corona virus
pandemic in Europe Italy devastated by
its deadliest day yet while in the UK
some dire predictions from experts who
say Italy's crisis could be a sign of
what's to come
in the US NBC's Richard Engel is in
London in Italy tonight infections are
spiking the country under lockdown for
the past week saw its death toll rises
up and experts say the u.s. may not be
far behind the respected Imperial
College London recently released a study
that estimated without any action 2.2
million Americans could die from the
virus a startling report shared with the
Trump administration tonight I spoke
with the study's lead scientist Neil
Ferguson in isolation with a coffin
fever awaiting his own test results
I always literally just swapped five
minutes ago by two doctors who came to
my apartment went here dressed in full
protective equipment before they came to
the door and then spoke to me how far
behind is the United States compared to
Italy or other European countries that
have seen pretty big outbreaks we're
talking days weeks so I think some areas
of the United States are probably a week
or two behind Italy did the United
States react too slowly okay is there
still time to catch up is it too late I
think in some areas or a Health System
some areas the country your health
system is gonna get very very stressed
how long are you budgeting that we're
going to be dealing with this probably
until we have a vaccine we're going to
have to stay with some degree of
vigilance social distancing closures
until there's a vaccine without doubt we
are going to be living with the virus
for a year probably 18 months two years
and there will be changes profound
changes to society throughout all that
time Richard Engel NBC News London one
of the people who put this newscast
together tonight are doing it in
kitchens and living rooms it's a story
across America people learning to
operate and work from home but we
wondered can the internet withstand all
that traffic
here's Jolene Kent the massive migration
online is putting our Internet
infrastructure to the test in Seattle
one of the coronavirus hotspots internet
usage has spiked forty percent in the
last week alone there was some panic mom
Michelle Peters is juggling working from
home and her three kids taking online
classes from a single laptop all on an
ordinary Wi-Fi connection
I have online resources and things
coming from the library and things
coming from teachers and now friends all
over the country who are in the same
boat pushing out here's my home school
information and it just is overwhelming
to ease the burden the FCC is working
with companies to open up Wi-Fi hotspots
promising not to cut off any Internet
services for individuals and small
businesses if they can't pay the bill
and waving late fees whether it's
somebody who's staying home from work
teleworking whether it's a student doing
homework whether it's a patient who
needs to get in touch with his or her
health care provider that connectivity
is going to be really important in the
days to come
and the FCC wants to make sure that
every American keeps and stays connected
at the same time major providers say
they're preparing to increase capacity
if needed AT&T and Comcast the parent
company of NBC Universal say they'll
lift data caps so users won't pay
overage Cox says it will automatically
upgrade basic internet packages to a
faster speed if your internet connection
is feeling slow be sure to take the
devices that you're not using off of the
Wi-Fi and no streaming entertainment or
video games when you're trying to get
that work or homework done you can
always call your internet provider to
see if they'll up this fee for you
laughter some real good advice there
thank you Joe Ling in the middle of the
crisis three states how Democratic Prime
he's Joe Biden sweeping them all Andrea
Mitchell with that with coronavirus
fears looming large advisors say Bernie
Sanders is deciding whether to end his
campaign after Joe Biden swept Florida
Arizona and Illinois Tuesday polls
showed voters in those states
overwhelmingly trusted Biden / Sanders
to handle a crisis and what could be the
last in-person primaries this year
Democrats pressing for mail-in balloting
for the rest of 2020 Sanders clearly
annoyed when asked by reporters if he is
dropping out role crisis right now I'm
trying to do my best to make sure that
we don't have an economic meltdown and
the people don't talk cuz I'm not you
his campaign emailing supporters no
sugarcoating it last night did not go
the way we wanted and no donor button
soliciting contributions the campaign is
no longer running active Facebook ads
Biden is appealing to Sanders supporters
so let me say especially to the young
voters who have been inspired by senator
Sanders I hear you I know what's at
stake I know what we have to do Sanders
heading home to Vermont with some
advisers wanting him to leave the door
open in case things change others saying
he has the most leverage now to get
policy concessions from Biden and unite
against President Trump Lester all right
Andrea thank you up next for us tonight
the new coronavirus warning about
children all right welcome back joining
me now is our medical correspondent dr.
John Torres John we thought that kids
were fairly protected from this virus
but I know there's talk about a new
study out there suggesting otherwise
what can you tell us what should parents
know Lester we now know that kids are
more vulnerable than we thought
they can get seriously sick and they can
also transmit the virus a new study in
China looked at 2,000 children who are
infected with the virus and found half
had mild symptoms about 40% had moderate
symptoms and about 6% developed severe
illness those kids under five were most
at risk
still if children get the virus they are
less likely than adults to become
critically ill but now we know kids are
not invincible
this means adults and children must do
everything they can to stay hell
the including hand-washing and social
distancing these are things we all need
to do we continue to learn about this
virus dr. John thank you reminder this
special anchor tomorrow and the
coronavirus of the networks of NBC
that's our broadcast and I thank you for
watching take care of yourself and each
other good night
hey NBC News viewers thanks for checking
out our YouTube channel subscribe by
clicking on that button down here and
click on any of the videos over here to
watch the latest interviews show
highlights and digital exclusives thanks
for watching